docs: add-blog (#2539)
apify/crawlee: website/blog/2024/06-10-creating-a-netflix-show-recommender-using-crawlee-and-react/index.md

author: Ayush Thakur
authorTitle: Community Member of Crawlee
authorURL: https://github.com/ayush2390
authorImageURL: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/43995654?v=4
authorTwitter: JSAyushThakur
---

# Building a Netflix web show recommender with Crawlee and React

In this blog, we'll guide you through the process of using Vite and Crawlee to build a website that recommends Netflix shows based on their categories and genres. To do that, we will first scrape the shows and categories from Netflix using Crawlee, and then visualize the scraped data in a React app built with Vite. By the end of this guide, you'll have a functional web show recommender that can provide Netflix show suggestions.

:::note
One of our community members wrote this blog as a contribution to Crawlee Blog. If you want to contribute blogs like these to Crawlee Blog, please reach out to us on our [discord channel](https://apify.com/discord).
:::

![How to scrape Netflix using Crawlee and React to build a show recommender](./img/create-netflix-show-recommender.png)

<!-- truncate -->

Let’s get started!

## Prerequisites

To use Crawlee, you need to have Node.js 16 or newer.

:::tip

> If you are Crawlee blog so far, we request you to [give Crawlee a star on GitHub](https://github.com/apify/crawlee), it helps us to reach and help more developers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you like the posts on the Crawlee blog so far, please consider [giving Crawlee a star on GitHub](https://github.com/apify/crawlee), it helps us to reach and help more developers. 
```

---
slug: netflix-show-recommender
title: 'Building a Netflix show recommender using Crawlee and React'
tags: [community]

> description: 'Create a Netflix show recommendation system using Crawlee to scrape the data, JavaScript to code, and React to build the front end.'

Reviewer 2: Is this the wording we agreed upon? 😄 If I clicked on an article about [recommender systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recommender_system) with scraping (sounds super cool) and got a simple React App, I would be a bit disappointed. 

Netflix is a large player in the realm of recommender systems, with the [Netflix Prize](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netflix_Prize), their [research papers](https://research.netflix.com/), and stuff... This article is going to have a lot of very strong SEO competition with this name.

Author: Yes, we agreed on it. I got the point, and I agree you are right, but this article is not from us. As said in the beginning, it is from one of the community members, and we made it clear that it is not supposed to be that perfect; it is just an app showing something like this can be created through a little work.

npx create-vite@latest
```

You can check out the [Vite Docs](https://vitejs.dev/guide/) to create a React app.

Once the React app is created, open it in VS Code.

![react](./img/react.png)

This will be the structure of your React app.

Run `npm run dev` command in the terminal to run the app.

![viteandreact](./img/viteandreact.png)

This will be the output displayed.

## Adding Scraper code

As per our project requirements, we will scrape the genres and the titles of the shows available on Netflix.

Let’s start building the scraper code.

### Installation

Run this command to install `crawlee`:

```
npm install crawlee
```

Crawlee utilizes Cheerio for [HTML parsing and scraping](https://crawlee.dev/blog/scrapy-vs-crawlee#html-parsing-and-scraping) of static websites. While faster and [less resource-intensive](https://crawlee.dev/docs/guides/scaling-crawlers), it can only scrape websites that do not require JavaScript rendering, making it unsuitable for SPAs (single page applications).

Additionally, Crawlee supports headless browser libraries like [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) and [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/) for scraping of websites that are JavaScript-rendered. 

> After installing the libraries, it’s time to create the scraper code.

Author: Netflix is an SPA but in this use case, it works good with CheerioCrawler.

> After installing the libraries, it’s time to create the scraper code.

Reviewer: Then we should just remove this or reword it so that it's clear that playwright will not be necessary.

// Extract genre titles
const titles = $(".nm-collections-row-name").map((_, el) => $(el).text().trim()).get();
```

This will give us the list of all the genres stored in the `titles` array.

### Scraping shows

To scrape the titles of shows, we will use the same method we used for scraping genres. Let’s find out the tag capturing the shows’ names.

![title](./img/title.png)

Here, we can observe that the title of the show is captured by the `span` tag having `nm-collections-title-name` class. So we can use the `span.nm-collections-title-name` selector to capture this and similar elements.

```js
// Extract show titles
const shows = $(".nm-collections-title-name").map((_, el) => $(el).text().trim()).get();
```

This will scrape the title of all the shows and store it in the `shows` array.

Since the Netflix page we scraped has exactly 40 shows for each genre, we will create arrays of 40 shows.

```js
// Prepare data for pushing
const allShows = [];
let genreShows = [];
shows.forEach((show) => {
    genreShows.push(show);
    if (genreShows.length === 40) {
    allShows.push(genreShows);
    genreShows = [];
    }
});
if (genreShows.length > 0) {
    allShows.push(genreShows);

> }

Reviewer 2: Or - even better - capture the structure straight from the HTML. You can call `$(element)` to the element's subtree. 

```typescript
const out = $('[data-uia="collections-row"]').map((_, el) => { // get a genre row
  const genre = $(el).find('[data-uia="collections-row-title"]').text(); // pick its (genre) title
  const items = $(el).find('[data-uia="collections-title"]').map((_, el) => $(el).text()).get(); // pick all items in the genre

  return { genre, items };
});
```

    const $ = await parseWithCheerio();

    // Extract genre titles
    const titles = $('.nm-collections-row-name')
      .map((_, el) => $(el).text().trim())
      .get();

    // Extract show titles
    const shows = $('.nm-collections-title-name')
      .map((_, el) => $(el).text().trim())
      .get();

    // Prepare data for pushing
    const allShows = [];
    let genreShows = [];
    shows.forEach((show) => {
      genreShows.push(show);
      if (genreShows.length === 40) {
        allShows.push(genreShows);
        genreShows = [];
      }
    });
    if (genreShows.length > 0) {
      allShows.push(genreShows);
    }

    await pushData({
      genre: titles,
      shows: allShows,
    });
  },

  // Limit crawls for efficiency
  // maxRequestsPerCrawl: 20,
});

await crawler.run(['https://www.netflix.com/in/browse/genre/1191605']);
await Dataset.exportToJSON('results');
```

Now, we will run Crawlee to scrape the website. Before running Crawlee, we need to tweak the `package.json` file. We will add the `start` script targeting the `scraper.js` file to run Crawlee.

Add the following code in `'scripts'` object:

```

> 'start': 'node src/scraper.js'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"start": "node src/scraper.js"
```

```

and save it. Now run this command to run Crawlee to scrape the data:

```sh
npm start
```

After running this command, you will see a `storage` folder with the `key_value_stores/default/results.json` file. The scrapped data will be stored in JSON format in this file.

Now we can use this JSON data and display it in the `App.jsx` component to create the project.

In the `App.jsx` component, we will import `jsonData` from the `results.json` file:

```js
import { useState } from 'react';
import './App.css';
import jsonData from '../storage/key_value_stores/default/results.json';

function HeaderAndSelector({ handleChange }) {
  return (
    <>
      <h1 className='header'>Netflix Web Show Recommender</h1>
      <div className='genre-selector'>
        <select onChange={handleChange} className='select-genre'>
          <option value=''>Select your genre</option>
          {jsonData[0].genre.map((genre, key) => {
            return (
              <option key={key} value={key}>
                {genre}
              </option>
            );
          })}
        </select>
      </div>
    </>
  );
}

function App() {

>   const [count, setCount] = useState(null);

Reviewer: I think this is not a count, it's an index into an array of shows, isn't it?

    // Use parseWithCheerio for efficient HTML parsing
    const $ = await parseWithCheerio();

    // Extract genre and shows directly from the HTML structure
    const data = $('[data-uia="collections-row"]')
      .map((_, el) => {
        const genre = $(el)
          .find('[data-uia="collections-row-title"]')
          .text()
          .trim();
        const items = $(el)
          .find('[data-uia="collections-title"]')
          .map((_, itemEl) => $(itemEl).text().trim())
          .get();
        return { genre, items };
      })
      .get();

    // Prepare data for pushing
    const genres = data.map((d) => d.genre);
    const shows = data.map((d) => d.items);

    await pushData({
      genre: genres,

>       shows: shows,

Reviewer: This looks suspicious - storing `genres` (plural) under `genre` (singular)
